The Joe Rogan experience. Joe Marineland was my home.
I was 12 years that I still to this day, I know I can feel that place.
It was my home. Those animals were my family. It just was it's, you know,
it's in life. When you take for granted,
when something is taken from you that you otherwise have. You know,
when I left that place, those animals are my mind. They have names,
they have personalities, they have history with me,
and these are some really powerful, uh,
relationships that I had with the animals.
But you introduce the likes of smooshy suddenly my wall,
and now I become a freaking mother to her. I mean,
this is where things get really freaking weird. Well,
explain that to people that have never seen any of the earlier podcast.
I'll do a quick run up in 2000. Uh, I don't even remember. No,
at this 200 12, I quit Marineland because the, uh, the,
the conditions were such that I, I didn't have much of a choice left. Uh,
and so I did, but in doing so, I had to leave a Wal that had imprinted on me.
She, uh, she was a baby Wal that came into captivity from, you know,
while caught from Russia. In fact, the, you saw the footage of the baby wall.
Is that awful? I, that guts me well, it's also,
it's awful where they describe how they kill the mother to take away the baby.
That footage is it's, it's scary in any event. So
my having been there, as long as I did in leaving, I,
I haven't felt like I left. I felt there was unfinished business there.
I'm not leaving my wall risk behind. I'm just not. And so
I'm, I'm very different. I'm a different person than what I was eight years ago,
Joe, when I was coming on here,
I was a person who was desperate with a story to tell eight years later,
people know who I am. They know what's happening. There's a film about me. Now,
if there's ever been a time that I have a chance at saving this Wal,
it is now or never. How old is she now? She would be 18. Okay, Joe,
I got stories to tell about what she's she's 18.
I got stories to tell her what's happened to her. Okay.
Let me just give you a quick update since the, well, explain the imprinting,
how okay. How that worked. Cause.
So what became would know how close you are to this walrus? Absolutely.
So was the documentary's crazy when you see that thing Glu to you,
you just won't leave your side. She thinks of me every day.
It's all she thinks about.
This is where this is where the tide changes for me with captivity,
because I am now witness to the trauma of what's become of an animal that's been
separated from a its mother because I know it.
So ex explain to people who don't understand what that means, like what,
what happens with an animal when an imprints happy to, to so, uh, herd animals,
such as wall's that are otherwise in groups of, uh,
of thousands when their calves are born, they need to imprint on the mother.
So what happens is everything about them, every attribution, whether it be the,
the, their smell, uh, what they look like, the sound of their voice,
everything tattoos on that animal's brain so that their,
that baby is able to identify that mother within thousands.
It's a scientific process that happens at birth.
When ooey came to us at two years of age, we were doing a, a,
a procedure on another wall and it caused her, you know,
she was in a heightened state of emotion and whatnot. She was going,
she was climbing all the other trainers. She was being a, a problem. So I,
I sought to pull her away from that situation.
All I did was put my hands in front of her face and she opened her nostrils big.
And I knew in that moment,
something had happened because now she was following me everywhere.
And I couldn't have attributed that to anything that I'd ever done in all of my
experience.
And so just to act of getting close to her and putting your hands on her face,
I believe it was during that traumatic, whatever happened,
her in circuitry opened.
And she realized that you're the one who takes care of her. I became her mom.
And so days go by and you know, I'm going back there and she's barking for me.
And I opened the gate. She's following me. And you know,
she wasn't healthy when we got her.
So now spending my eight hour to 12 hour shifts,
actually just sleeping and Soo she's laying on,
you see the footage in the documentary. She's just laying beside me.
She would only eat from me. It became this crazy thing. And that's what became,
I mean, and that's when that's when the that's,
when the world started to change for me. I, I don't have children, Joe, I don't,
I never did that. I mean, Frank,
that it's not an opportunity that would've been allotted to a person like me
trying to fight multimillion dollar lawsuits and everything else.
I had to put a lot of things on hold in life. Generally, my life is on hold.
Lot of freaking ways because of, of, of what Marineland has done. I mean,
you see, they're sending the police to my house all the time. I mean,
over tweets and, like what?
And they send the police to your house over tweets. Like what,
what do the police say when they show up? Well, these days they leave,
then they leave with Marineland stickers. They gotta love getting that call,
but I don't think they wanna be there. They don't really wanna be there, but,
but why do they have to show up? Like, what are the tweets? What are you saying?
Because Twitter will ban you if you threaten people. I,
so you're not threatening anybody. The tweet that I sent that sent, well,
one of them was, life is short steal a wall.
And they sent the police to my house because I had tweeted. Life is short,
steal a wall. I tweeted it. I took a shower. I came back out,
I saw the tweeted explode. I said, oh, that's, that's gonna get some attention.
And the next day the cops pull up and I said, you gotta be kidding me. So I,
I light up the camera, the video, of course, you got the video in the film.
It's at the very end of the film. You see it, but here's, what's become
on June 1st,
a former employee of Marineland who had been fired inexplicably. She,
she herself couldn't quite understand.
Although we sort of figured it out over some time,
she came to me and she said she had things to tell me about smooshy.
And the one thing she said that struck me, she said she was pregnant. I said,
that's an impossibility 17 year old wall versus a,
it would be really grossly irresponsible to allow for that to happen.
Two what's our have spent well, in a while, they may go 30,
35 years at Marineland.
They don't last eight to 10 smooshy is the last one alive.
But what Marineland did is they negotiated a deal to have her transferred out
on my birthday. This sounds crazy, but I have the documentation.
I maybe shouldn't admit that, but I do.
They had plans to ship her out on March 21, my birthday, it failed.
It failed because of COVID. They tried two days later,
I got a tweet from the C F I from, uh, uh, an anonymous tweet from, uh,
someone saying your friends at the C F I a stopped an export to Germany,
to a facility, I believe. And I don't want to absolutely attribute it to it,
but I believe it's the tier park zoo in Hamburg, Germany. Uh, they, you know,
I've done some research. They breed walles. They know how to do it.
This girl says to me, I think like they were treating, Smoy like,
she's pregnant. It's an impossibility. There wasn't a male wall alive in the,
in the gestation period of a wall of a, of a Wal pregnancy. In fact,
the math is such that the last male died at the same time,
as you would otherwise be getting swishy pregnant at Marineland at Marineland.
Now I worked there 12 years, and at the time we had like a lot of walrus,
they never successfully were successfully BR in fact,
Wal breeding is a very difficult thing in captivity.
You need a range of very specific things. You need certain UV lighting.
You need some fresher, you need a number of things. It's, it's a,
it's a rare thing. And it's quite celebrated what it happens in captivity.
I didn't believe her. I wouldn't believe her,
but she kept telling me of things that these,
that she kept telling me that there were veterinarian from Germany that were
there and that they were manipulating her.
And it had happened over some time and they were monitoring her. Now,
when I put two and two together, okay, we've got an export to, to Germany.
That's supposed to happen in March canceled on account to COVID. We've got, uh,
we've got a girl telling me now that there's German,
veterinarians that are manipulating smooshy. I tweeted,
I have I something to the effect. I I'm paraphrasing,
but something to the effect of, you know, I have a good, I have on good, uh,
reason to believe that M's been, uh, inseminated, like she's been made pregnant.
And, uh, June 3rd Marineland tweeted that ooey had given birth to a calf.
There's not been a picture of ooey since over a year ago on account to COVID
ooey was never taken out the park operated, but, you know,
obviously there was not a lot of numbers, but they,
because of the rules of bill S 2 0 3, which we had passed in Canada,
which bans the, the captive of, uh, of whales, dolphin, the purposes, it also,
uh, limits their performance. They,
they're not actually allowed to perform for entertainment no more, uh,
much of the advertising is not allowed and whatnot.
So when I read Marineland press release of what they,
you know of, of M's calf's birth, which I aptly named June,
which was the, the month she was born and is also the name of the, uh,
of Marineland veterinarian. Um,
they said they were monitoring smooshy carefully. And that, you know, these,
this, that giving birth is a risky thing.
We've not seen a picture of her since there's not been a IOT of an update.
In fact, I started to,
at one point I tweeted it's time for me to accept that smoo she's probably dead.
It had been months.
And whereas Marineland used to respond to my tweets with an update of oo sheet.
There was nothing, there was nothing.
Now I knew that there was efforts to have her shipped out and whatnot.
So what happened was social media start to getting flooded.
Marineland social media. People started saying where is.
MHI not only supporters of mine,
people that support Marineland Marine land's response. And this is a,
this was a national article in all of Canada.
That completely ignored everything. All media requests, my lawyers requests.
We just wanna know where smooshy is. We wanna know if she's still alive.
They blocked everybody. They're blocking fans. They're blocking everybody.
People started to call Marine lens's lawyer,
Marine lens's lawyer who has attributed himself as Marine lens spokesperson in
public was a Paul bear at John holder's death
was now telling people if you want answers about Marineland call Marineland.
He is Marineland. He's the one that does the answers where the is smooshy.
That's where I am at today.
I don't know with absolute certainty that she's alive,
but I should mention that I have been told by a lot of people that she is,
I have reason to believe that she is. I don't absolutely know, like how.
Does someone know that? Who is someone.
Who works there? So because the people that work there. So,
so what I should mention is that girl who had told me this information that got
fired inexplicably, it turned out because she was like a junior trainer.
She was inadvertently in a meeting where they had gone over the details of the,
uh, German vets coming in and whatnot.
And one of the trainers were actually trying to stop Marine Anne's lawyer from
revealing too much, because that girl shouldn't have been there.
And a week later she was fired. She doesn't understand what the hell happened.
I don't know that that's exactly the story, because this is what she says to me.
Now,
imagine former employees come to me with stories and I typically tell people if
you're a former employee, you're no, you're not really good to me anymore.
I mean, if you didn't have,
if you didn't have the gumption to do something while you're an employee,
don't come to me now,
because I don't know that you haven't been fired because you're.
I don't know your backstory.
I don't know that I'm able to trust your information,
but hers came and I did do the tweet and it, it wound up being absolutely, uh,
absolutely true.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify, including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new J you episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.